README.md, before:

# Important note on this fork

**Important: In the current state this fork only supports backup files prior to the introduction of the _phone numer hiding_ feature.
Backup files newer than 2023-06 might now work and instead report an `error: failed to analyse file: Decryption error, wrong password` error.**

## Building
The state of the repository might not be in a working state. To build you can try doing the following steps to create binaries.

     git clone https://github.com/sean-gugler/signal-back
     go get
     build_all.sh 

Below is the documentation from the upstream author xeals, which is in significant parts outdated.

---


# signal-back

[![Build status](https://travis-ci.org/xeals/signal-back.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/xeals/signal-back)

Since version 4.17.5, the Signal Android app encrypts its backup files. While these are undoubtedly a security benefit over unencrypted backups, they do present an issue in being read into other systems or simply by their owner.

`signal-back` can extract and format the contents of such backup files. You need to specify the file's password; `signal-back` makes no attempt to figure out the password itself.

# Usage

Either [build from source](#building-from-source) or download a [pre-built binary](https://github.com/sean-gugler/signal-back/releases) and put the executable somewhere you can find it.

```
Usage: signal-back COMMAND [OPTION...] BACKUPFILE

  --help, -h     show help
  --version, -v  print the version

Commands:
  analyse  Information about the backup file
  extract  Decrypt contents into individual files
  format   Export messages from a signal database
  help     Shows a list of commands or help for one command
```

Supported export formats are:
- XML: Compatible with [SMS Backup & Restore](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.riteshsahu.SMSBackupRestore)
- CSV: Comma-Separated Value text file
- JSON: JavaScript Object Notation file

# Password

The password you need to decrypt the content of the Signal backup file was shown to you by Signal when you enabled local backups [similar to this screenshot](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/8427572/36796616-d9560ee6-1c9d-11e8-8440-99e7f5f2ee03.JPG). It consists of six groups of five digits.

The most secure way to provide the password to `signal-back` is to enter it in the interactive dialog such as `12345 12345 12345 12345 12345 12345`. Your entry will not be echoed to the console nor stored anywhere.

For convenience, if you prefer, you can also provide the password on the command line using `-p 12345 12345 12345 12345 12345 12345` or you can write it in a text file and pass it to signal-back using `-P password.txt`.

# Example usage

Download whichever binary suits your system from the [releases page](https://github.com/sean-gugler/signal-back/releases); Windows, Mac OS (`darwin`), or Linux, and 32-bit (`386`) or 64-bit (`amd64`). Checksums are provided to verify file integrity.

Find where you downloaded the file and open an interactive shell (Command Prompt, Terminal.app, gnome-terminal, etc.). Make sure your `signal-XXX.backup` file is in the same folder, or else specify the full path your backup file when running the program.

## Extracting

All messages are stored in a sqlite3 database file. Attachment files such as images, videos, and PDFs will be placed in a subfolder named `Attachments`.

If you're on Windows:

```sh
signal-back_windows_amd64.exe extract -o folder signal-XXX.backup
```

If you're on MacOS or Linux (where e.g., `OS` is `darwin` and `ARCH` is `amd64`):

```sh
chmod +x signal-back_OS_ARCH
./signal-back_OS_ARCH extract -o folder signal-XXX.backup
```

Enter your 30-digit password at the prompt (with or without spaces, doesn't matter). Note that your password will not be echoed back to you for security purposes.

Everything will be in folder you specified, or if you omitted the `-o` option, in the folder where you ran the command. Note that some attachments may have a `.unknown` extension; this is because `signal-back` might not be able to determine what type of files these are. Please report an issue on github if you encounter one of these.

## Importing to SMS Backup & Restore

Once you have extracted the message database, you can convert them into a format usable by SMS Backup & Restore.

If you're on Windows:

```sh
signal-back_windows_amd64.exe format -f XML -o backup.xml signal.db
```

If you're on MacOS or Linux (where e.g., `OS` is `darwin` and `ARCH` is `amd64`):

```sh
chmod +x signal-back_OS_ARCH
./signal-back_OS_ARCH format -f XML -o backup.xml signal.db
```

You can then copy `backup.xml` to your phone and restore it using SMS Backup & Restore.

# Building from source

Building requires [Go](https://golang.org) and [dep](https://github.com/golang/dep). If you don't have one (or both) of these tools, instructions should be easy to find. After you've initialised everything:

```
$ git clone https://github.com/sean-gugler/signal-back $GOPATH/src/github.com/sean-gugler/signal-back
$ cd $GOPATH/src/github.com/xeals/signal-back
$ dep ensure
$ go build .
```

You can also just use `go get github.com/sean-gugler/signal-back`, but I provide no guarantees on dependency compatibility.

# Todo list

- [ ] Code cleanup
  - [ ] make code legible for other people
- [x] Actual command line-ness
- [x] Formatting ideas and options
- [ ] User-friendliness in errors and stuff

# License

Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 ([LICENSE](LICENSE)
or http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0).

## Contribution

Unless you explicitly state otherwise, any contribution intentionally submitted
for inclusion in the work by you, as defined in the Apache-2.0 license, shall be
licensed as above, without any additional terms or conditions.

Commit message:

Updated to acknowledge file version 1, even though it cannot yet be parsed.

README.md, after:

# Notes about this fork

This code is tested and working for Signal backup files made earlier than 2023-07-12. At that time the file format was revised, and this tool does not yet parse the newer format. See signalapp commit [c6473ca](https://github.com/signalapp/Signal-Android/commit/c6473ca9e63236af3eae9959a50cfa643d53272e) for details.

Binaries for this tool have not yet been updated in github. You'll need to rebuild from source.

## Building
You must have [Go](https://golang.org) and [dep](https://github.com/golang/dep) installed.

The following steps will create binaries:

     git clone https://github.com/sean-gugler/signal-back
     go get
     build_all.sh 

Below is the documentation from the upstream author xeals. Parts have been updated for this fork, but others are significantly outdated.

---


# signal-back

[![Build status](https://travis-ci.org/xeals/signal-back.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/xeals/signal-back)

Since version 4.17.5, the Signal Android app encrypts its backup files. While these are undoubtedly a security benefit over unencrypted backups, they do present an issue in being read into other systems or simply by their owner.

`signal-back` can extract and format the contents of such backup files. You need to specify the file's password; `signal-back` makes no attempt to figure out the password itself.

# Usage

Either [build from source](#building-from-source) or download a [pre-built binary](https://github.com/sean-gugler/signal-back/releases) and put the executable somewhere you can find it.

```
Usage: signal-back COMMAND [OPTION...] BACKUPFILE

  --help, -h     show help
  --version, -v  print the version

Commands:
  analyse  Information about the backup file
  extract  Decrypt contents into individual files
  format   Export messages from a signal database
  help     Shows a list of commands or help for one command
```

Supported export formats are:
- XML: Compatible with [SMS Backup & Restore](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.riteshsahu.SMSBackupRestore)
- CSV: Comma-Separated Value text file
- JSON: JavaScript Object Notation file

# Password

The password you need to decrypt the content of the Signal backup file was shown to you by Signal when you enabled local backups [similar to this screenshot](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/8427572/36796616-d9560ee6-1c9d-11e8-8440-99e7f5f2ee03.JPG). It consists of six groups of five digits.

The most secure way to provide the password to `signal-back` is to enter it in the interactive dialog such as `12345 12345 12345 12345 12345 12345`. Your entry will not be echoed to the console nor stored anywhere.

For convenience, if you prefer, you can also provide the password on the command line using `-p 12345 12345 12345 12345 12345 12345` or you can write it in a text file and pass it to signal-back using `-P password.txt`.

# Example usage

Download whichever binary suits your system from the [releases page](https://github.com/sean-gugler/signal-back/releases); Windows, Mac OS (`darwin`), or Linux, and 32-bit (`386`) or 64-bit (`amd64`). Checksums are provided to verify file integrity.

Find where you downloaded the file and open an interactive shell (Command Prompt, Terminal.app, gnome-terminal, etc.). Make sure your `signal-XXX.backup` file is in the same folder, or else specify the full path your backup file when running the program.

## Extracting

All messages are stored in a sqlite3 database file. Attachment files such as images, videos, and PDFs will be placed in a subfolder named `Attachments`.

If you're on Windows:

```sh
signal-back_windows_amd64.exe extract -o folder signal-XXX.backup
```

If you're on MacOS or Linux (where e.g., `OS` is `darwin` and `ARCH` is `amd64`):

```sh
chmod +x signal-back_OS_ARCH
./signal-back_OS_ARCH extract -o folder signal-XXX.backup
```

Enter your 30-digit password at the prompt (with or without spaces, doesn't matter). Note that your password will not be echoed back to you for security purposes.

Everything will be in folder you specified, or if you omitted the `-o` option, in the folder where you ran the command. Note that some attachments may have a `.unknown` extension; this is because `signal-back` might not be able to determine what type of files these are. Please report an issue on github if you encounter one of these.

## Importing to SMS Backup & Restore

Once you have extracted the message database, you can convert them into a format usable by SMS Backup & Restore.

If you're on Windows:

```sh
signal-back_windows_amd64.exe format -f XML -o backup.xml signal.db
```

If you're on MacOS or Linux (where e.g., `OS` is `darwin` and `ARCH` is `amd64`):

```sh
chmod +x signal-back_OS_ARCH
./signal-back_OS_ARCH format -f XML -o backup.xml signal.db
```

You can then copy `backup.xml` to your phone and restore it using SMS Backup & Restore.

# Building from source

Building requires [Go](https://golang.org) and [dep](https://github.com/golang/dep). If you don't have one (or both) of these tools, instructions should be easy to find. After you've initialised everything:

```
$ git clone https://github.com/sean-gugler/signal-back $GOPATH/src/github.com/sean-gugler/signal-back
$ cd $GOPATH/src/github.com/sean-gugler/signal-back
$ dep ensure
$ go build .
```

You can also just use `go get github.com/sean-gugler/signal-back`, but I provide no guarantees on dependency compatibility.

# Todo list

- [ ] Code cleanup
  - [ ] make code legible for other people
- [x] Actual command line-ness
- [x] Formatting ideas and options
- [ ] User-friendliness in errors and stuff

# License

Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 ([LICENSE](LICENSE)
or http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0).

## Contribution

Unless you explicitly state otherwise, any contribution intentionally submitted
for inclusion in the work by you, as defined in the Apache-2.0 license, shall be
licensed as above, without any additional terms or conditions.
